So why would we want to use infrastructure as code?
Well, there's a lot of different benefits we can get from it.
Let's look at a few top‑level benefits and dive
into more detail on each of them.
The first of these will be cost management,
how we can save money or at least manage the cost that
we have using infrastructure as code.
We'll also look at how we can create infrastructures that are
reproducible every time we want to create them.
So if we have a very similar project for one client and for another,
we might want to create the exact same infrastructure for both of them.
We'll talk about this too.
And then finally,
we'll look at how we can make sure we're doing some secure things
when we're working with infrastructure as code.
Let's start with cost management.
With cost management,
we'll have the ability to allocate costs for every resource that we
create when we're using infrastructure as code.
In AWS,
we can do this by tagging the different resources we create and associating
their costs with particular projects or particular cost centers,
such as departments in our organization.
We can also create cost estimates for each infrastructure stack.
If two stacks are identical between different projects,
we can probably assume they're going to be relatively the same cost
unless there is significant differences inside of the stack involving
how much they can scale out or scale down.
Additionally,
we're going to avoid having leftover stranded resources throughout our
AWS cloud infrastructure that we're still paying for,
but that we're not really sure which projects they're associated
with and that we don't want to delete them.
You can avoid this by using infrastructure as code and
making sure you're doing tagging, like I mentioned for cost allocation.
Additionally,
infrastructure as code can help with policy compliance, for example,
if we have different regulations that mean we have to have pieces
of infrastructure that do one thing or another.
With infrastructure as code,
you could actually evaluate that line by line through the code and make sure
that you are compliant with whatever those policies are.
And, of course, with infrastructure as code,
you don't have to do as much work to create one set of resources multiple times.
It'll actually save you a lot of time,
and this impacts the costs and the bottom line that you have.
Now,
let's talk about this last bit a little more because it goes
into reproducibility between different environments when we're
creating the same infrastructure.
Let's imagine we have a CloudFormation template.
This template will help us create infrastructure that
contains things like databases, virtual machines,
and the networking rules that make them able to talk to
one another and to the larger internet.
Now, if we wanted to reproduce this infrastructure,
we could use the same template in a different AWS account to
produce the exact same infrastructure.
So what is this reproducibility offer us?
Well,
it helps us avoid making mistakes inside of the AWS console
UI, clicking on the wrong buttons or setting the
configuration settings inappropriately.
There's also no series of commands that we have to
run correctly in the right order.
We just get a descriptive template of our entire infrastructure,
and we deploy that. Now, you can use this one configuration
file and then deploy to any AWS account,
and we can, even if we wanted to, parameterize across different regions or
application stages to help us manage things like one version of an application
inside of the US region of our choice and another version of an application
inside of Europe or another AWS data center.
Now, if we have different stages,
we can also manage things like a test environment versus a production
environment and different API keys we might have in one or the other.
So in addition to reproducibility, what are some of the other benefits we get?
Let's look at security. With confirmation templates, we can have them be
reviewed by other developers or DevOps engineers to make sure that they live
up to whatever standards our organization has.
We can also create approved reusable templates with different
parameterization in them to make sure that whatever we're building is
within the security guidelines that our organization sets, and we can
limit the ways that we change the infrastructure inside of our AWS
account, mandating that it goes through infrastructure as code processes
rather than developers changing any of the settings inside of our
accounts that they'd like.
Now,
this can also help when we have things like audits of our
infrastructure because auditors can then focus on the
infrastructure as code pieces of our code,
and they can see all the different changes that occurred to that infrastructure
and also review any application logs if we've set those up.
But that can severely reduce the scope of what the auditors have
to look at in our environments to make sure they're confident
that what we're doing is living up to the standards that they're
there to check in on.
So hopefully now you're convinced that infrastructure as code gives us
a lot of different benefits when we're working with it. Let's learn how we can apply it directly inside of AWS.